Do you need social media for Your Business?
How much of a focus should it be?
That is contingent upon many,
many questions only of which I'll cover right now.
Social media can be very helpful and there are many successful businesses,
many successful personalities for instance built on Youtube,
Instagram and so on.
I like to control as many variables as possible and I spend a lot of time
looking at the potential worst case scenarios.
What if fill in the worst case scenario I hedge meaning I do whatever I can
possible to limit the downside and then I proceed.
I like asymmetrical risks,
I he very minimal downside or some way that I can cut bait if things don't work
out and very,
very high upside.
For that reason.
I have spent time on social media,
but there are many businesses and you can look through the annals of history for
hundreds of years,
including right now in this precise moment that have been built without any
emphasis whatsoever on social media and my belief is that the focus should be
first and foremost,
if your product is not content which changes the game of bent,
if your product is not content and it's something else,
your focus should be on making your product or service so good that no one can
ignore it.
At least those people in your ideal demographic,
your target 1000 true fans,
they cannot ignore it and they will want to tell all their friends about it.
In that case,
you do not think at all or don't have to.
How about your personal or business social media accounts that you can let your
own diehard fans do all of the recruiting and sharing for you?
That is my preference.
I think more often than not,
people engage in social media and obsess over social media for several reasons.
Number One,
many people are doing exactly that and there's a certain degree of Fomo,
fear of missing out,
uh,
and to guilt or obligation are not in my experience,
very,
very good drivers for good business decisions.
Second is that you are on platforms run by multibillion dollar companies with
near infinite resources and research and development designed to make it as
sticky as possible for your monkey brand to get lost in the noise and links and
photographs on these various platforms.
You are completely outgunned.
Uh,
so it is very easy and I think the default that people use social media citing
business reasons,
but in fact they are really simply obsessed with the buisiness of using social
media and which should not be confused with productivity,
which entails longterm planning,
measurable objectives,
set milestones,
how will you know when you are successful type of markers along the way and so
on.
So my default is to ask the question,
how could you let or encourage all of your fans customers to do all of the
marketing for you?
If you could only focus on the product or service and had to deliver an 11 star,
say out of four or five star Max experience,
what would it look like?
Uh,
I would encourage people as a thought exercise to do at least then,
because social media can be gasoline on the fire,
but not every fire is beneficial.
So have a longterm strategy and play the long game.